allow passing options to react hooks module (#134)
rtk-incubator/rtk-query: docs/concepts/customizing-create-api.md

---
id: customizing-create-api
title: Customizing createApi
sidebar_label: Customizing createApi
hide_title: true
---

# Customizing `createApi`

Currently, RTK Query includes two variants of `createApi`:

- `createPureApi` which contains only the basic redux logic (the core module)
- `createApi` which contains both the core and react-hooks modules

You can create your own versions of `createApi` by either specifying non-default options for the modules or by adding your own modules.

## Customizing the React-Redux Hooks

If you want the hooks to use different versions of `useSelector` or `useDispatch`, for example if you are using a custom context, you can pass these in at module creation:

```ts
import * as React from 'react';
import { createDispatchHook, ReactReduxContextValue } from 'react-redux';
import { buildCreateApi, coreModule, reactHooksModule } from '@rtk-incubator/rtk-query';

const MyContext = React.createContext<ReactReduxContextValue>(null as any);
const customCreateApi = buildCreateApi(coreModule(), reactHooksModule({ useDispatch: createDispatchHook(MyContext) }));
```

## Creating your own module

> If you want to create your own module, you should review [the react-hooks module](https://github.com/rtk-incubator/rtk-query/blob/next/src/react-hooks/module.ts) to see what an implementation would look like.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to create your own module, you should review [the react-hooks module](https://github.com/rtk-incubator/rtk-query/blob/main/src/react-hooks/module.ts) to see what an implementation would look like.
```

---
id: customizing-create-api
title: Customizing createApi
sidebar_label: Customizing createApi
hide_title: true
---

# Customizing `createApi`

> Right now, we are shipping `createApi` in two flavors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, RTK Query includes two variants of `createApi`:
```

- `createPureApi` which contains only the basic redux logic (the core module)

> - `createApi` which contains the core module and additionally the react-hooks module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `createApi` which contains both the core and react-hooks modules
```

> You can create your own versions of `createApi` by either specifying non-default options for the modules, or add your own modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create your own versions of `createApi` by either specifying non-default options for the modules or by adding your own modules.
```

## Customizing the React-Redux Hooks

If you want the hooks to use different versions of `useSelector` or `useDispatch`, for example if you are using a custom context, you can pass these in at module creation:

> If you have created a module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```ts
import * as React from 'react';
import { createDispatchHook, ReactReduxContextValue } from 'react-redux';
import { buildCreateApi, coreModule, reactHooksModule } from '@rtk-incubator/rtk-query';

const MyContext = React.createContext<ReactReduxContextValue>(null as any);
const customCreateApi = buildCreateApi(coreModule(), reactHooksModule({ useDispatch: createDispatchHook(MyContext) }));
```

## Creating your own module

> If you want to create your own module, best take a lookt at [the react-hooks module](https://github.com/rtk-incubator/rtk-query/blob/next/src/react-hooks/module.ts) as what such an implementation would look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to create your own module, you should review [the react-hooks module](https://github.com/rtk-incubator/rtk-query/blob/next/src/react-hooks/module.ts) to see what an implementation would look like.
```

Here is a very stripped down version:

```ts
import { CoreModule } from '@internal/core/module';
import { BaseQueryFn, EndpointDefinitions, Api, Module, buildCreateApi, coreModule } from '@rtk-incubator/rtk-query';

export const customModuleName = Symbol();
export type CustomModule = typeof customModuleName;

declare module '@rtk-incubator/rtk-query' {
  export interface ApiModules<
    BaseQuery extends BaseQueryFn,

>     Definitions extends If you have created a moduleEndpointDefinitions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Definitions extends EndpointDefinitions,
```

## Creating your own module

> If you want to create your own module, you should review [the react-hooks module](https://github.com/rtk-incubator/rtk-query/blob/next/src/react-hooks/module.ts) to see what an implementation would look like.

Reviewer 2: :hand: should the link to go `main` instead of `next` ?

Author: Hmm, good question. Yeah, for documentation purposes `main` is probably better.
